---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "zfs_pool Resource - terraform-provider-zfs"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  zfs pool resource.
---

# zfs_pool (Resource)

zfs pool resource.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "zfs_pool" "zdata" {
  name = "zdata"

  mirror {
    device {
      path = "/dev/sda"
    }

    device {
      path = "/dev/sdb"
    }
  }

  mirror {
    device {
      path = "/dev/sdc"
    }

    device {
      path = "/dev/sdd"
    }
  }

  property {
    name  = "relatime"
    value = "on"
  }

  property {
    name  = "recordsize"
    value = "4K"
  }

  property {
    name  = "compression"
    value = "on"
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) Name of the zpool.

### Optional

- `device` (Block List) Defines a striped vdev (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--device))
- `mirror` (Block List) Defines a mirrored vdev (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--mirror))
- `property` (Block Set) Propert(y/ies) to set (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--property))
- `property_mode` (String) Which properties to manage.

		"defined" means only manage the properties explicitly defined in the resource. This is the default.

		"native" means manage all native zfs properties, but leave user properties alone (see man zfsprops for more info
		about these types of properties). This means all properties that aren't defined in the terraform resource but that
		are explicitly overriden on the zfs resource will be set back to inherit from their parent/the default.

		"all" is like "native", but also includes user properties. Be careful when removing/altering properties you don't
		recognize as some tools might use user properties to track information important for that tool to work properly
		with a given resource.

		Note that some properties don't have a default that they can be compared/reset to (notably most of the zpool
		properties). These properties will only ever be managed when explicitly defined, and will be left as they are when
		they stop being defined.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `properties` (Map of String) Formatted versions of all zfs properties.
- `raw_properties` (Map of String) Parseable versions of all zfs properties.

<a id="nestedblock--device"></a>
### Nested Schema for `device`

Required:

- `path` (String) Device path of the vdev to add


<a id="nestedblock--mirror"></a>
### Nested Schema for `mirror`

Required:

- `device` (Block List, Min: 2) Device(s) which make up the mirror. Repeat the block for multiple devices (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--mirror--device))

<a id="nestedblock--mirror--device"></a>
### Nested Schema for `mirror.device`

Required:

- `path` (String) Device path of the vdev to add



<a id="nestedblock--property"></a>
### Nested Schema for `property`

Required:

- `name` (String) The name of the property to configure
- `value` (String) Value of the property


